Team “Jaguar” has developed an application that aims to aid users in finding an HDB flat to buy by applying specific parameters. 

Functional requirements
System functionality to be performed
1.1. The system must allow users to search for HDB flats based on the following criteria.
1.1.1 Price range (SGD per square meter)
1.1.2 Nearby schools
1.1.3 Region of Singapore
1.1.4 Specific area
1.2. If the user searches for a specific price range, the system must show all HDB flats within that given range.
1.3 If the user searches for a specific school, the system must show all HDB flats within 2km of the given school.
1.4. If the user searches for a specific area/region, the system must show all HDB flats within that area/region.
1.5. The system must allow the user to view detailed information about an HDB flat.
1.5.1 The detailed information must include:
1.5.1.1 Block No.
1.5.1.2 Type of flat
1.5.1.3 Address
1.5.1.4 MRT station of closest proximity and distance from it
1.5.1.5 Nearby entertainment hubs
1.5.1.6 Nearby government facilities
1.5.2 The flat must be highlighted if it is under BTO.
1.6 The user must be able to view the resale value history of HDB flats in a specified area.
1.7 The user must be able to search for nearby clinics and hospitals.
1.7.1 The system must show clinics and hospitals within 2km of a particular HDB flat.
1.8 The user must be able to search for schools.
1.8.1 The system must show schools within 2km of a particular HDB flat.
1.8.2 The user must be able to filter different types of schools including the following:
	1.8.2.1 Kindergarten/Pre-school
	1.8.2.2 Primary School
	1.8.2.3 Secondary School
	1.8.2.4 ITE
	1.8.2.5 Polytechnic
	1.8.2.6 Junior College
	1.8.2.7 University


Information to be processed
2.1 The address of HDB flats must be displayed in the following format.
	2.1.1 Street, Unit Number, Postal Code
2.2 Resale value must be displayed with a “$” sign, with a comma separating every 3 digits and 0 decimal places.
2.3 Distance must be displayed in “km” with 2 decimal places.

Interface with other systems
3.1 The system must retrieve the information of HDB flats from data.gov.sg
3.2 The system must retrieve the location of nearby clinics, hospitals, and schools from the Google Maps API.

Non-functional requirements
Usability
1.1 The application must display help messages in English to aid users.
1.2 The application must display relevant error messages when errors occur.
1.3 The application must display suggestions when the user is typing in the search bar.

Reliability
2.1 The system must display up to date(within 6 months) information about HDB flats.
2.2 The system must not crash upon opening the application.

Performance
3.1 The system must be able to retrieve the information of HDB flats that are searched for within 5 seconds.
3.2 The system must be able to retrieve the information of nearby clinics and hospitals within 3 seconds.
3.3 The system must be able to retrieve the information of nearby schools within 3 seconds.
3.4 The application must display the main menu within 5 seconds after launch.

Supportability
4.1 Data of the HDB flats will be stored in XML format for ease of access and update.

Data dictionary
HDB flats: A unit of housing owned by the Housing and Development Board (HDB) that is available for purchase.
User: A human that interacts with the application to find out information about HDB flats.
System: The application itself, able to retrieve data of HDB flats.
Entertainment hubs: Places of entertainment such as sports hubs and malls
Government facilities: Facilities provided by the government such as Postal Office, Community Centres, and CPF building.

Use Case Descriptions
Searching for HDBs
User starts the application and views the main menu.
User types in desired area or region of HDB in the search bar
The system provides autocomplete suggestions based on what the user has typed.
The user accepts the suggestion and initiates the search
System lists out all relevant HDBs based on the user’s given criteria.
The user selects one of the HDBs to view its detailed information.
System will fetch the relevant data pertaining to the selected HDB and display it.

Viewing Facilities
The user selects the option to view nearby facilities around the HDB.
The system will display the different types of facilities for the user to select in greater detail.
The user selects one of the types to display. 
The system displays the HDB flat on a map along with all the nearby selected facilities marked.
The user selects one of the facilities to view its information.

AF-S4:
The user filters search based on price range and housing type.
The system returns to Step 3.

AF-S5:
System is unable to find any HDBs with the user’s criteria.
System will display an error message
System will return back to Step 2.
