Introduction
Team “Jaguar” has developed an application that simplifies the search experience for users who are looking to buy resale flats in Singapore. 
The app utilizes up-to-date data from the government to provide a seamless search experience and detailed information for users. 
It also allows users to filter HDBs by their preferences as well as view nearby facilities on the map. 


Functional requirements
System functionality to be performed
1.1. The system must allow users to search for HDB flats based on the following criteria.
	1.1.1 Price range (SGD per square meter)
	1.1.2 Housing type
	1.1.3 Region of Singapore
	1.1.4 Specific area
1.2. If the user searches for a specific price range, the system must show all HDB flats within that given range.
1.3 If the user searches for a specific area/region, the system must show all HDB flats within that area/region.
1.4 The system must allow the user to view detailed information about an HDB flat.
	1.4.1 The detailed information must include:
		1.4.1.1 Block No.
		1.4.1.2 Type of flat
		1.4.1.3 Address
		1.4.1.4 MRT station of closest proximity and distance from it
		1.4.1.5 Nearby entertainment hubs
		1.4.1.6 Nearby government facilities
	1.4.2 The flat must be highlighted if it is under BTO.
1.5 The user must be able to view the resale value history of HDB flats in a specified area.
1.6 The user must be able to search for nearby clinics and hospitals.
	1.6.1 The system must show clinics and hospitals within 2km of a particular HDB flat.
1.7 The user must be able to search for schools.
	1.7.1 The system must show schools within 2km of a particular HDB flat.
	1.7.2 The user must be able to filter different types of schools including the following:
		1.7.2.1 Kindergarten/Pre-school
		1.7.2.2 Primary School
		1.7.2.3 Secondary School
		1.7.2.4 ITE
		1.7.2.5 Polytechnic
		1.7.2.6 Junior College
		1.7.2.7 University


Information to be processed
2.1 The address of HDB flats must be displayed in the following format.
	2.1.1 Street, Unit Number, Postal Code
2.2 Resale value must be displayed with a “$” sign, with a comma separating every 3 digits and 0 decimal places.
2.3 Distance must be displayed in “km” with 2 decimal places.

Interface with other systems
3.1 The system must retrieve the information of HDB flats from data.gov.sg
3.2 The system must retrieve the location of nearby clinics, hospitals, and schools from the Google Maps API.

Non-functional requirements
Usability
1.1 The application must display help messages in English to aid users.
1.2 The application must display relevant error messages when errors occur.
1.3 The application must display suggestions when the user is typing in the search bar.

Reliability
2.1 The system must display up to date(within 6 months) information about HDB flats.
2.2 The system must not crash upon opening the application.

Performance
3.1 The system must be able to retrieve the information of HDB flats that are searched for within 5 seconds.
3.2 The system must be able to retrieve the information of nearby clinics and hospitals within 3 seconds.
3.3 The system must be able to retrieve the information of nearby schools within 3 seconds.
3.4 The application must display the main menu within 5 seconds after launch.

Supportability
4.1 Data of the HDB flats will be stored in XML format for ease of access and update.

Data dictionary:
HDB flats: A unit of housing owned by the Housing and Development Board (HDB) that is available for purchase.
User: A human that interacts with the application to find out information about HDB flats.
System: The application itself, able to retrieve data of HDB flats.
Entertainment hubs: Places of entertainment such as sports hubs and malls
Government facilities: Facilities provided by the government such as Postal Office, Community Centres, and CPF building.

Use Case Descriptions
Logging in
1. User starts the application and views the login page.
2. User selects ‘Login via Google account’
3. User is not logged in to Google account
4. User will enter his credentials
5. System will verify account via Firebase API
6. User has provided correct credentials
7. System will obtain user data from Google account
8. User will be able to log in via Google account

AF-S3
1. User is already logged in to Google Account
2. System returns to Step 5

AF-S6
1. User enters incorrect credentials
2. System returns to Step 4

Searching for HDBs
1. User starts the application and views the main menu.
2. User types in the desired area or region of HDB in the search bar
3. System provides autocomplete suggestions based on what the user has typed.
4. User accepts the suggestion and initiates the search
5. System lists out all relevant HDBs based on the user’s given criteria.
6. Systems lists the respective HDBs depending on user choice
7. User selects one of the HDBs to view its detailed information.
8. System will fetch the relevant data pertaining to the selected HDB and display it.

AF-S3:
1. User rejects autocomplete suggestions and types his own input
2. System returns to Step 5

AF-S4:
1. User filters search based on price range and housing type.
2. System returns to Step 3.

EX5:
1. System is unable to find any HDBs with the user’s criteria.
2. System will display an error message.
3. System will return back to Step 2.


Viewing Facilities
1. User selects the option to view nearby facilities around the HDB.
2. System will display the different types of facilities for the user to select in greater detail.
3. User selects one of the types to display. 
4. System displays the HDB flat on a map along with all the nearby selected facilities marked.
5. User selects one of the facilities to view its information.

EX4:
1. System is unable to find any of the requested facilities nearby the HDB.
2. System will display an error message.
3. System will return back to Step 2.

EX4:
1. Google Maps API is unavailable and System is unable to display the map.
2. System will display an error message.
3. System will return back to Step 2.
